So, guys, now next, let us discuss what is peace table, so peace table is a data structure which
is maintained by operating system for every process that is running in the system.
Remember, peace table is for every process that does every process has its own private table based
table is used to map the virtual address of process, which will address the space to our physical address
in RAM.
So let us see the contents of page table and how does it help to map the virtual address in a process
which will address the space to our physical address offramp.
So let us suppose that following represents the virtual memory of some particular process.
Let us say that this virtual memory of a process is fragmented into five virtual pages, and the diagram
on the right hand side represents random access memory.
That is physical memory, which is a split it up into seven frames.
So this is a physical memory, and we already know that physical memory is a noncontiguous memory,
noncontiguous here means that physical pages of a process which are contiguous need not be present in
Adderson frames in this main memory.
So you can see that the physical page p0 is present in frame F.T. and physical page P1 is present in
frame FIP and frame F3 and F5 are not adjusted frames.
It is for this reason that physical memory is called noncontiguous memory, whereas virtual memory is
called contiguous memory, because virtual pages in this virtual memory has to be strictly laid down
in ascending order.
Now let us see that.
Where does the page table fit?
So you can see that table is like a marriage maker.
Between virtual memory of a process and the physical memory supposed to be contains three columns.
The first column is the virtual page number of a process.
The second column is the corresponding physical page number, which this virtual page number maps,
and the third column is the frame number.
So in this example, the virtual page, No.
Zero maps to the physical page, number zero of a process.
Similarly, Whelchel page number one maps to the physical page number one and so on.
So in normal scenario, the virtual page number is always equal to the physical space number.
We will see later that in what's an annual ritual, page number may not be equal to physical page number
in a stable.
And the third column is the frame, no frame, no means the frame number of a main memory in which this
physical page is loaded.
For example, physical page number one is present in frame number five of physical memory.
Right.
So you can see that physical space, number one, is present in frame number five of physical memory.
Similarly, physical space number two is present in frame number one of physical memory.
So here you can see that, right?
So we use the best able to know that corresponding to a given virtual page, number of physical page
number is loaded in which frame of a physical memory.
For example, in order to do a look up into the space table, we will supply, which is number as a
key.
So suppose the key supplied is for so corresponding to the virtual page number for the physical piece
number is four and the physical page number four has not been assigned any frame number in the physical
memory.
It simply means that physical page number four is present on a desk instead of main memory.
And remember, we already know that corresponding to every virtual page of a process that exists, corresponding
physical page.
Now, I ask you one question, what are the number of rows in the page table, right?
So the number of rows in the peace table must be equal to the number of pages in virtual memory of a
precise number of virtual pages in a process where two letters, the space is to restore the Potente.
So it means that number of entries in a peace table is equal to to restore the power 20 on a 32 bit
operating systems.
So no frills in a peace table is equal to number of pages in the process, which will address space.
Right, and this makes sense because the key to the peace table is the first column, which is what
is no right and the maximum, which is no asterisk to the 20 minus one.
Now, let us take an example to illustrate how Atlas mapping from Virtual Atlas to Physical Atlas happens.
I hope I'm able to explain that what is stable and how does space will help us to map a virtual page,
a physical page?
And how about space to help us to find out that a given physical page is located in which frame number
of a physical memory.
So from this table, you can immediately see that if I give you an input as virtual page no as three.
So you should be able to see that virtual page number three maps to our physical page number three.
And this physical piece number three is present in frame number two of a physical memory.
So you should be able to read the meaning of a particular entry in a page table.
Again, by default, virtual page number is always equal to the physical page number in a page table
when we shall be discussing the advanced concepts such as shared memory are -- that.
In this scenario, we will see that virtual space number may not be equal to the physical space number
in the peace table.